# Artifact for "Language Mechanization Frameworks into Real-World Programming Language Specifications in the Wild"

## Getting Started with Docker

First, clone the repository.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/pacokwon/p4-evaluation-harness
$ git submodule init && git submodule update
```

Build an image from the `Dockerfile` provided by this repository.

```bash
$ docker build -t p4-eval-harness:latest .
```

Run the docker container, and execute `bash` inside it:

```bash
## launch a docker container in detached state.
$ docker run -dit --name p4-eval-harness p4-eval-harness

## run a shell inside the container
$ docker exec -it p4-eval-harness bash
```

## Reproducing RQ1 and RQ3

### RQ1: Adequacy of Algorithmic Inference Rules

#### P4 type checker backend tests

Execute the following command to run the P4-SpecTec P4 type checker backend tests.

TODO

#### P4 interpreter backend tests

We run tests on five test suites spanning three architectures: V1Model, eBPF, and PSA. The test suites are labeled as follows:

* `V1Model`: 203 P4-STF pairs for the V1Model architecture from the `p4c` repository.
* `eBPF`: 17 P4-STF pairs for the eBPF architecture from the `p4c` repository.
* `V1Model+`: 1,982 additional P4–STF pairs for the V1Model architecture, generated by feeding P4 programs from `p4c` into P4Testgen, configured to produce up to 10 STF files per program.
* `eBPF+`: 144 additional P4–STF pairs for the eBPF architecture, generated by feeding P4 programs from `p4c` into P4Testgen, configured to produce up to 10 STF files per program.
* `PSA`: 26 P4-STF pairs for the PSA architecture from the `p4c` repository.

Execute the following command to run the P4-SpecTec P4 interpreter backend tests.

TODO

### RQ3: Comparison with Existing Formalizations

In this section, we compare P4-SpecTec with Petr4 and HOL4P4.
Each project can be found in the root directory of the docker container.

```
/
├── HOL4P4
├── petr4
└── p4-spectec
```

#### Static Semantics

We compare P4-SpecTec and Petr4 by running both positive and negative type checker tests on the two projects. HOL4P4 is excluded from this comparison, as it is unable to execute its P4 type system mechanization.

##### P4-SpecTec

Execute the following command to run type checker tests on P4-SpecTec:

TODO

##### Petr4

Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
$ cd /petr4
```

Execute the following commands to run type checker tests on Petr4:

```bash
# Run positive tests
$ make pos
# Log: /evaluation/p4c/petr4/static/pos.log

# Run negative tests
$ make neg
# Log: /evaluation/p4c/petr4/static/neg.log
```

#### Dynamic Semantics

We compare P4-SpecTec, Petr4 and HOL4P4 by running the test suites `V1Model`, `eBPF`, `V1Model+`, and `eBPF+`, as defined previously in RQ1.

The list of files excluded from testing is located in `/testdata/excludes`. Each project uses its own copy of `/testdata/excludes` within its respective project directory.

##### P4-SpecTec

TODO

##### Petr4

Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
$ cd /petr4
```

Execute the following commands to each test suite on Petr4:

```bash
# V1Model
$ make sim-p4c-v1model
# Log: /evaluation/p4c/petr4/dynamic/v1model.log

# eBPF
$ make sim-p4c-ebpf
# Log: /evaluation/p4c/petr4/dynamic/ebpf.log

# V1Model+
$ make sim-p4testgen-v1model
# Log: /evaluation/p4testgen/petr4/dynamic/v1model.log

# eBPF+
$ make sim-p4testgen-ebpf
# Log: /evaluation/p4testgen/petr4/dynamic/ebpf.log
```

##### HOL4P4

Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
$ cd /HOL4P4/hol/p4_from_json
```

Execute the following commands to each test suite on HOL4P4:

```bash
# V1Model
$ make sim-p4c-v1model
# Log: /evaluation/p4c/hol4p4/dynamic/v1model.log

# eBPF
$ make sim-p4c-ebpf
# Log: /evaluation/p4c/hol4p4/dynamic/ebpf.log

# V1Model+
$ make sim-p4testgen-v1model
# Log: /evaluation/p4testgen/hol4p4/dynamic/v1model.log

# eBPF+
$ make sim-p4testgen-ebpf
# Log: /evaluation/p4testgen/hol4p4/dynamic/ebpf.log
```
